Pass the Hash
Pass the Hash is a technique that
allows an attacker to authenticate
to a remote system or service
using a user’s NTLM hash
instead of the plaintext password.
Note that this will only work
for a server or service
using NTLM authentication,
not kerberos.
Many third-party tools and frameworks use
PtH to allow users to both authenticate
and obtain code execution,
including PsExec from Metasploit
and the Passing-the-hash toolkit.
The mechanics behind them
are more or less the same
in that the attacker connects
to the victim
using the Server Message Block protocol
and performs authentication
using the NTLM hash.
Note that PtH uses the NTLM
hash legitimately.
However, the vulnerability lies in
the fact that we gained unauthorized
access to the password hash
of a local administrator.
To demonstrate this, we can use pth-winexe
from the Passing-The-Hash toolkit.
In this case, we use NTLM authentication
to obtain code execution
on the windows 10 client directly
from our Kali Linux machine,
using only the user’s NTLM hash.
This method also works for Active
Directory domain accounts
and the built-in local
administrator account.